# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
After being hired to the mobile application development team for the Mobile2App Company, I was tasked with creating one of three applications.  The one I chose was an inventory app where the goal was for it to be able to keep track of items in a warehouse by allowing users to create, read, update, and delete items in the database.  The app was to have at least two tables in a database, one for storing user login information, and the other to hold data about the inventory items.  To keep users connected, the app was to also have a way of sending users a text whenever an item was low on stock if app permissions were granted.

# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
Two main screens were required to support user needs where one would show the login screen and the other would show the inventory items in a grid/list.  Keeping users in mind for creating a successful design, the app's layout was kept simple to ensure that the screens were user-friendly and not too difficult to understand.  Sub-screens were used to keep the main screens decluttered such as a screen for creating an account, a screen for adding items, and a screen where a user could enter their phone number.  To allow users to create, read, update, and delete items in the inventory, the inventory screen is used to show the items in a list.  Each item row contains text to show the item's name and quantity as well as buttons to add, subtract, and delete items.  
  
# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
When developing the app I used a strategy I have used in the past that has helped me stay on task by breaking the development of that app in sections.  For this course this was already done for us by first starting with creating the different screens for the app.  Once this was complete, I used the flow of the app to work by first starting with the login screen and creating the functionality there then working on the screen for creating an account as this screen is accessed from the login screen.  Once past the login screen you are directed to the inventory screen, so I started working on that.  This took the most time as this screen has the most functionality associated with it.  I then developed the screen for adding new items to that database and updating the inventory screen to show these changes, then lastly the settings screen where the user can enter their phone number if they wish to receive text messaged of items low on stock.

# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
Using the same technique when developing the app, I tested the app by navigating through the app as if I was a user.  With no database created there were no users, so when trying to login with invalid credentials didn't work, I tested the create account section to ensure that when a username and password were entered, they were added to the database. This revealed some issues at first such as the need for the EditText for the password to be set as password so no one else can see it, as well as a need to fix the database functionality for adding the new user's info to the database.  After this was fixed the login screen was tested to ensure that you were sent to the inventory screen.  This, as mentioned before, had a lot to test due to its more complex functionality and also introduced some issues needing attention. After getting these fixed and testing the add item and settings screen, further testing was completed to ensure a smooth app experience.  This process helps to ensure that any significant issues that could affect user interaction with the app are ironed out and gives reason to investigate further testing in some areas where more issues were present.

# Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
Nearing the end of development, I was creating the settings page where you can enter a phone number and if an item becomes low on stock, a text message will be sent letting you know of this.  I found out that this proved to be an issue as the function that decreases and checks the item's quantity is in the database Java class.  Since this class is not an activity of the app, there is no way to send a message from it.  So by using the RecyclerViewAdapter I was able to create something I have not worked with before which was an interface that allowed me to call a function from an activity that was able to send the SMS text message.  This took some time to research and understand how I could get it to work with my application, but after some time I was able to get it working properly.

# In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I believe the RecyclerViewAdapter helped show my experience from this course the most with Android Studio and mobile app development as this is where a lot of functionality of the app resides.  This class/activity is where I spent a lot of time creating the functionality for when the user interacts with the buttons in the row card for each item as well as showing item details in the textViews on the left side of each card.
